L1: Introduction

L2: What is a wireframe?
A great picture is worth 1000 words.

Wireframe is a technique to visualize user's thoughts, preferences and requirements about user interface(UI) and user experience(UX) of a website or a mobile app.

Basically, it's a low fidelity(low-fi) sketch/skeleton of a website or mobile app that helps to validate and finalize UI/UX requirements and creates a strong foundation to develop high fidelity( hi-fi) user interface designs called "Prototypes".

A wireframe consists of a basic outline of essential components of a website or mobile app such as: Screen layouts, navigation bars, components of UI/UX design, interactive elements.

It is a powerful and iterative process where the wireframes are created, reviewed by stakeholders and kept on revising until they are finalized.

Steps for successful wireframe creation:

1. Articulate = Writing down the UI/UX requirements from users (Stakeholders)
2. Outline = Of the solution to fulfill the UI/UX requirements.
3. Create wireframe = Based on the outline
4. Review = With Stakeholders.
5. Iterate = Work on the feedback received and improve the wireframe until they are approved by users.

L3: When to use wireframe?
There are 4 different scenarios to be considered:
1. When a new web or mobile app needs to be developed.
2. When it is required to explore and evaluate different user interface ideas for a new product concept.
3. When the stakeholders have different conflicting ideas about UI elements of a product feature.
4. When a new feature to be added to an existing app but there is no established design system or hi - fi designs available.

L4: Why should a BA prepare wireframe?
:)

L5: Popular Wireframing Tools
1. Figma
Explore design possibilities, build prototypes, and easily translate your work into code with Figma - a collaborative product development platform for teams.

It offers:
Low fi wireframes and Hi-Fi designs(Prototypes)
Contextual comments and real time collaboration
Web and desktop apps
Free forever for draft designs
Paid plans for advanced features


2. Uizard
Visualize, communicate, and iterate on wireframes and prototypes in minutes. Empower your product team with AI.

It offers:
Low fi wireframes and Hi-Fi designs(Prototypes)
Web and desktop apps
Contextual comments and collaboration
Limited free plan and paid plans
AI designs

3. Balsamiq
Get your ideas out quickly and clearly with Balsamiq - the low fidelity, high impact tool loved by product managers, founders, developers and UX teams everywhere

It offers:
Only Low fi wireframes
Built in components
Web and desktop apps
30 days free trial
Paid subscription plans

L6: Articulate user interface requirements


















